Title: Attention Is All You Need - Transformers Architecture Summary
Author: Ashish Vaswani et al. (Condensed summary for RAG testing)

The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks in an encoder-decoder configuration. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely.

Model Architecture:
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure. Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations (x_1, ..., x_n) to a sequence of continuous representations z = (z_1, ..., z_n). Given z, the decoder then generates an output sequence (y_1, ..., y_m) of symbols one element at a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive, consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next.

Encoder:
The encoder is composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. That is, the output of each sub-layer is LayerNorm(x + Sublayer(x)), where Sublayer(x) is the function implemented by the sub-layer itself. To facilitate these residual connections, all sub-layers in the model, as well as the embedding layers, produce outputs of dimension d_model = 512.

Decoder:
The decoder is also composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. In addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack. Similar to the encoder, we employ residual connections around each of the sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. We also modify the self-attention sub-layer in the decoder stack to prevent positions from attending to subsequent positions. This masking, combined with fact that the output embeddings are offset by one position, ensures that the predictions for position i can depend only on the known outputs at positions less than i.

Attention:
An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output, where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. The output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the query with the corresponding key.

Scaled Dot-Product Attention:
We call our particular attention "Scaled Dot-Product Attention". The input consists of queries and keys of dimension d_k, and values of dimension d_v. We compute the dot products of the query with all keys, divide each by the square root of d_k, and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the values. In practice, we compute the attention function on a set of queries simultaneously, packed together into a matrix Q. The keys and values are also packed into matrices K and V. We compute the matrix of outputs as:
Attention(Q, K, V) = softmax((Q * K^T) / sqrt(d_k)) * V

Multi-Head Attention:
Instead of performing a single attention function with d_model-dimensional queries, keys and values, we found it beneficial to linearly project the queries, keys and values h times with different, learned linear projections to d_k, d_k and d_v dimensions, respectively. On each of these projected versions of queries, keys and values we then perform the attention function in parallel, yielding d_v-dimensional output values. These are concatenated and once again projected, resulting in the final values.

Why Self-Attention:
We compare three aspects of self-attention layers to recurrent and convolutional layers:
1. Total computational complexity per layer.
2. Amount of computation that can be parallelized, as measured by the minimum number of sequential operations required.
3. Path length between long-range dependencies in the network. Learning long-range dependencies is a key challenge in many sequence transduction tasks. One key factor affecting the ability to learn such dependencies is the path length signals have to traverse in the network. The shorter the path between any position in the input and output sequences, the easier it is to learn long-range dependencies. Hence we also compare the maximum path length between any two input positions in networks composed of different layer types. Self-attention layers connect all positions with a constant number of sequentially executed operations, whereas a recurrent layer requires O(n) sequential operations.
